README.md, before:

# grunt-connect-proxy

> Provides a http proxy as middleware for the grunt-contrib-connect plugin.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-connect-proxy --save-dev
```

One the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-connect-proxy');
```

## Adapting the  "connect" task

### Overview

#### Proxy Configuration
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `proxies` to your existing connect definition.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
    connect: {
        server: {
            options: {
                port: 9000,
                hostname: 'localhost'
            },
            proxies: [
                {
                    context: '/cortex',
                    host: '10.10.2.202',
                    port: 8080,
                    https: false,
                    xforward: false,
                    headers: {
                        "x-custom-added-header": value
                    },
                    hideHeaders: ['x-removed-header']
                }
            ]
        }
    }
})
```
#### Adding the middleware

##### With Livereload

Add the middleware call from the connect option middleware hook
```js
        connect: {
            livereload: {
                options: {
                    middleware: function (connect, options) {
                        if (!Array.isArray(options.base)) {
                            options.base = [options.base];
                        }

                        // Setup the proxy
                        var middlewares = [require('grunt-connect-proxy/lib/utils').proxyRequest];

                        // Serve static files.
                        options.base.forEach(function(base) {
                            middlewares.push(connect.static(base));
                        });

                        // Make directory browse-able.
                        var directory = options.directory || options.base[options.base.length - 1];
                        middlewares.push(connect.directory(directory));

                        return middlewares;
                    }
                }
            }
        }
```

##### Without Livereload

It is possible to add the proxy middleware without Livereload as follows:

```js
   // server
    connect: {
      server: {
        options: {
          port: 8000,
          base: 'public',
          logger: 'dev',
          hostname: 'localhost',
          middleware: function (connect, options, defaultMiddleware) {
             var proxy = require('grunt-connect-proxy/lib/utils').proxyRequest;
             return [
                // Include the proxy first
                proxy
             ].concat(defaultMiddleware);
          }
        },
        proxies: [ /* as defined above */ ]
      }
  }
```

### Adding the configureProxy task to the server task
For the server task, add the configureProxies task before the connect task
```js
    grunt.registerTask('server', function (target) {
        grunt.task.run([
            'clean:server',
            'compass:server',
            'configureProxies:server',
            'livereload-start',
            'connect:livereload',
            'open',
            'watch'
        ]);
    });
```

**IMPORTANT**: You must specify the connect target in the `configureProxies` task.

### Options
The available configuration options from a given proxy are generally the same as what is provided by the underlying [httpproxy](https://github.com/nodejitsu/node-http-proxy) library

#### options.context
Type: `String` or `Array`

The context(s) to match requests against. Matching requests will be proxied. Should start with /. Should not end with /
Multiple contexts can be matched for the same proxy rule via an array such as:
context: ['/api', '/otherapi']

#### options.host
Type: `String`

The host to proxy to. Should not start with the http/https protocol.

#### options.port
Type: `Number`
Default: 80

The port to proxy to.

#### options.https
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

 if the proxy should target a https end point on the destination server

#### options.secure
Type: `Boolean`
Default: true

 true/false, if you want to verify the SSL Certs (Avoids: SELF_SIGNED_CERT_IN_CHAIN errors when set to false)

Whether to proxy with https

#### options.xforward:
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

Whether to add x-forward headers to the proxy request, such as
  "x-forwarded-for": "127.0.0.1",
  "x-forwarded-port": 50892,
  "x-forwarded-proto": "http"


#### options.appendProxies
Type: `Boolean`
Default: true

Set to false to isolate multi-task configuration proxy options from parent level instead of appending them.

#### options.rewrite
Type: `Object`

Allows rewrites of url (including context) when proxying. The object's keys serve as the regex used in the replacement operation. As an example the following proxy configuration will update the context when proxying:

```js
proxies: [
    context: '/context',
    host: 'host',
    port: 8080,
    rewrite: {
        '^/removingcontext': '',
        '^/changingcontext': '/anothercontext',
        '^/updating(context)': function(match, p1) {
            return '/new' + p1;
        }
    }
]
```

#### options.headers
Type: `Object`

A map of headers to be added to proxied requests.

#### options.hostRewrite
Type: `String`

Rewrites the location hostname on 30X redirects.

#### options.hideHeaders
Type: `Array`

An array of headers that should be removed from the server's response.

#### options.errorHandler
Type: `Function`

Another middleware that will be called if proxy request fails.
Example:
```js
    errorHandler: function(req, res, next, err) {
        if (err.code === 404) {
            res.send('Some error page');
        } else {
            next();
        }
    }
```

#### options.ws
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

Set to true to proxy websockets.

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

#### Multi-server proxy configuration

grunt-contrib-connect multi-server configuration is supported. You can define _proxies_ blocks in per-server options and refer to those blocks in task invocation.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
    connect: {
            options: {
                port: 9000,
                hostname: 'localhost'
            },
            server2: {
                proxies: [
                    {
                        context: '/cortex',
                        host: '10.10.2.202',
                        port: 8080,
                        https: false,
                    }
                ]
            },
            server3: {
                appendProxies: false,
                proxies: [
                    {
                        context: '/api',
                        host: 'example.org'
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
})

grunt.registerTask('e2etest', function (target) {
    grunt.task.run([
        'configureProxies:server2',
        'open',
        'karma'
    ]);
});
```


## Release History
* 0.1.0 Initial release
* 0.1.1 Fix changeOrigin
* 0.1.2 Support multiple server definitions, bumped to grunt 0.4.1 (thanks to @lauripiispanen)
* 0.1.3 Bumped http-proxy dependency to 0.10.2
* 0.1.4 Added proxy rewrite support (thanks to @slawrence)
* 0.1.5 Default rejectUnauthorized to false to allow self-signed certificates over SSL
* 0.1.6 Add xforward option, added support for context arrays, added debug logging
* 0.1.7 Added WebSocket support (thanks for @killfill), Headers support (thanks to @gadr), various docs fixed
* 0.1.8 Minor websocket bug fix
* 0.1.10 Minor bug fix
* 0.1.11 Fix Websocket support on Node 0.10 - Bumped http-proxy dependency to 1.1.4, Removed unsupported http-proxy options (rejectUnauthorized, timeout, changeOrigin)
* 0.2.0 Added hidden headers support

Commit message:

Keep proxies list for multiple connect servers.
    - Add a `keepProxiesOnConnect` option to setup connect.
    - Add a proxy config `matchContext` function to verify
      context applygin proxy based rules.
    - Add tests for `keepProxiesOnConnect` flag.
    - Add tests for proxy `matchContext` function.

README.md, after:

# grunt-connect-proxy

> Provides a http proxy as middleware for the grunt-contrib-connect plugin.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-connect-proxy --save-dev
```

One the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-connect-proxy');
```

## Adapting the  "connect" task

### Overview

#### Proxy Configuration
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `proxies` to your existing connect definition.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
    connect: {
        server: {
            options: {
                port: 9000,
                hostname: 'localhost'
            },
            proxies: [
                {
                    context: '/cortex',
                    host: '10.10.2.202',
                    port: 8080,
                    https: false,
                    xforward: false,
                    headers: {
                        "x-custom-added-header": value
                    },
                    hideHeaders: ['x-removed-header']
                }
            ]
        }
    }
})
```
#### Adding the middleware

##### With Livereload

Add the middleware call from the connect option middleware hook
```js
        connect: {
            livereload: {
                options: {
                    middleware: function (connect, options) {
                        if (!Array.isArray(options.base)) {
                            options.base = [options.base];
                        }

                        // Setup the proxy
                        var middlewares = [require('grunt-connect-proxy/lib/utils').proxyRequest];

                        // Serve static files.
                        options.base.forEach(function(base) {
                            middlewares.push(connect.static(base));
                        });

                        // Make directory browse-able.
                        var directory = options.directory || options.base[options.base.length - 1];
                        middlewares.push(connect.directory(directory));

                        return middlewares;
                    }
                }
            }
        }
```

##### Without Livereload

It is possible to add the proxy middleware without Livereload as follows:

```js
   // server
    connect: {
      server: {
        options: {
          port: 8000,
          base: 'public',
          logger: 'dev',
          hostname: 'localhost',
          middleware: function (connect, options, defaultMiddleware) {
             var proxy = require('grunt-connect-proxy/lib/utils').proxyRequest;
             return [
                // Include the proxy first
                proxy
             ].concat(defaultMiddleware);
          }
        },
        proxies: [ /* as defined above */ ]
      }
  }
```

### Adding the configureProxy task to the server task
For the server task, add the configureProxies task before the connect task
```js
    grunt.registerTask('server', function (target) {
        grunt.task.run([
            'clean:server',
            'compass:server',
            'configureProxies:server',
            'livereload-start',
            'connect:livereload',
            'open',
            'watch'
        ]);
    });
```

**IMPORTANT**: You must specify the connect target in the `configureProxies` task.

### Options
The available configuration options from a given proxy are generally the same as what is provided by the underlying [httpproxy](https://github.com/nodejitsu/node-http-proxy) library

#### options.context
Type: `String` or `Array`

The context(s) to match requests against. Matching requests will be proxied. Should start with /. Should not end with /
Multiple contexts can be matched for the same proxy rule via an array such as:
context: ['/api', '/otherapi']

#### options.host
Type: `String`

The host to proxy to. Should not start with the http/https protocol.

#### options.port
Type: `Number`
Default: 80

The port to proxy to.

#### options.matchContext
Type: `Function`
Default: null

Allows to specify a specific matchContext used by the proxy instance to check if the context is
valid. It receives the request object as a parameter.

``` javascript
proxies: [{
    context: '/',
    host: 'www.foo.com',
    port: 8080,
    matchContext: function(req){
        return req.headers.host === 'localhost'
    }
}];
```

#### options.https
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

 if the proxy should target a https end point on the destination server

#### options.secure
Type: `Boolean`
Default: true

 true/false, if you want to verify the SSL Certs (Avoids: SELF_SIGNED_CERT_IN_CHAIN errors when set to false)

Whether to proxy with https

#### options.xforward:
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

Whether to add x-forward headers to the proxy request, such as
  "x-forwarded-for": "127.0.0.1",
  "x-forwarded-port": 50892,
  "x-forwarded-proto": "http"


#### options.appendProxies
Type: `Boolean`
Default: true

Set to false to isolate multi-task configuration proxy options from parent level instead of appending them.

#### options.keepProxiesOnConnect
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

Allows to keep the proxies list with the proxies configured on previous connect tasks.

#### options.rewrite
Type: `Object`

Allows rewrites of url (including context) when proxying. The object's keys serve as the regex used in the replacement operation. As an example the following proxy configuration will update the context when proxying:

```js
proxies: [
    context: '/context',
    host: 'host',
    port: 8080,
    rewrite: {
        '^/removingcontext': '',
        '^/changingcontext': '/anothercontext',
        '^/updating(context)': function(match, p1) {
            return '/new' + p1;
        }
    }
]
```

#### options.headers
Type: `Object`

A map of headers to be added to proxied requests.

#### options.hostRewrite
Type: `String`

Rewrites the location hostname on 30X redirects.

#### options.hideHeaders
Type: `Array`

An array of headers that should be removed from the server's response.

#### options.errorHandler
Type: `Function`

Another middleware that will be called if proxy request fails.
Example:
```js
    errorHandler: function(req, res, next, err) {
        if (err.code === 404) {
            res.send('Some error page');
        } else {
            next();
        }
    }
```

#### options.ws
Type: `Boolean`
Default: false

Set to true to proxy websockets.

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

#### Multi-server proxy configuration

grunt-contrib-connect multi-server configuration is supported. You can define _proxies_ blocks in per-server options and refer to those blocks in task invocation.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
    connect: {
            options: {
                port: 9000,
                hostname: 'localhost'
            },
            server2: {
                proxies: [
                    {
                        context: '/cortex',
                        host: '10.10.2.202',
                        port: 8080,
                        https: false,
                    }
                ]
            },
            server3: {
                appendProxies: false,
                proxies: [
                    {
                        context: '/api',
                        host: 'example.org'
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
})

grunt.registerTask('e2etest', function (target) {
    grunt.task.run([
        'configureProxies:server2',
        'open',
        'karma'
    ]);
});
```


## Release History
* 0.1.0 Initial release
* 0.1.1 Fix changeOrigin
* 0.1.2 Support multiple server definitions, bumped to grunt 0.4.1 (thanks to @lauripiispanen)
* 0.1.3 Bumped http-proxy dependency to 0.10.2
* 0.1.4 Added proxy rewrite support (thanks to @slawrence)
* 0.1.5 Default rejectUnauthorized to false to allow self-signed certificates over SSL
* 0.1.6 Add xforward option, added support for context arrays, added debug logging
* 0.1.7 Added WebSocket support (thanks for @killfill), Headers support (thanks to @gadr), various docs fixed
* 0.1.8 Minor websocket bug fix
* 0.1.10 Minor bug fix
* 0.1.11 Fix Websocket support on Node 0.10 - Bumped http-proxy dependency to 1.1.4, Removed unsupported http-proxy options (rejectUnauthorized, timeout, changeOrigin)
* 0.2.0 Added hidden headers support
